v7.6 introduces a system variable tidb_idle_transaction_timeout (#15693)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-connection-parameters.md

TiDB provides two MySQL-compatible parameters to control the timeout: [`wait_timeout`](/system-variables.md#wait_timeout) and [`max_execution_time`](/system-variables.md#max_execution_time). These two parameters respectively control the connection idle timeout with the Java application and the timeout of the SQL execution in the connection; that is to say, these parameters control the longest idle time and the longest busy time for the connection between TiDB and the Java application. Since TiDB v5.4, the default value of `wait_timeout` is `28800` seconds, which is 8 hours. For TiDB versions earlier than v5.4, the default value is `0`, which means the timeout is unlimited. The default value of `max_execution_time` is `0`, which means the maximum execution time of a SQL statement is unlimited.

> The default value of [`wait_timeout`](/system-variables.md#wait_timeout) is relatively large. In scenarios where a transaction starts but is neither committed nor rolled back, you might need a finer-grained control and a shorter timeout to prevent prolonged lock holding. TiDB v7.6.0 introduces [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) to control the idle timeout for transactions in a user session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value of [`wait_timeout`](/system-variables.md#wait_timeout) is relatively large. In scenarios where a transaction starts but is neither committed nor rolled back, you might need a finer-grained control and a shorter timeout to prevent prolonged lock holding. In this case, you can use [`tidb_idle_transaction_timeout`](/system-variables.md#tidb_idle_transaction_timeout-new-in-v760) (introduced in TiDB v7.6.0) to control the idle timeout for transactions in a user session.
```
